# ramblings

1. [belonging and essence](#belonging-and-essence)

---

### belonging and essence

It's through exchange that we grow, and truth happens as a destructive event; confronted with an irreconcilable fact, the illusion of knowledge cracks, the boundaries of our horizons shatter. Hence, receiving the influence of another is not an abnegation of one’s own belonging. It would be crude to confine identity purely within the bounds imposed by geographical circumstance. Rather, it is an inner layer that, when ruptured, begins to flow more freely in wider space. We could imagine that circumstance, country and nation, to be the outermost circle in a concentric view of identity, furthest from the core; then, smaller and smaller concentric circles within it would correspond to smaller and smaller social belongings: community, family, up to the pure unicity of the individual. Each of these circles can, and probably should be broken. We readily believe this lie of a definite identity, buttressed by gregariousness and thirst for the comfort of validation and defined social structures. Today, however, we enjoy unparalleled exposure to the variety of manifestations of human spirit, and through this otherness the self can affirm its individuality. It is in recognizing the existence of another country, tribe, family, or person that the concepts of country, tribe, family, or person take shape. Likeness and difference suddenly emerge out of stark darkness, and our consciousness sublates itself into something greater than before. Yet we are no more in an era of countries than one of tribes. We live in a world within which we are offered continuous and instant contact with that which is unlike ourselves. In that sense, there has never been greater opportunity for self-affirmation and a fuller realization of our potential. The innermost circle of authenticity within us can expand beyond barriers we mistakenly thought infrangible, or that we hadn't even been able to recognize.
